---
layout: post
usehighlight: true
tags: [JavaScript, Algorithms, Data Structures, Coding Interview, LeetCode]
title: LeetCode 678 - Valid Parenthesis String (Medium)
---

Given a string s containing only three types of characters: '(', ')' and '*', return true if s is valid.

The following rules define a valid string:

Any left parenthesis '(' must have a corresponding right parenthesis ')'.
Any right parenthesis ')' must have a corresponding left parenthesis '('.
Left parenthesis '(' must go before the corresponding right parenthesis ')'.
'*' could be treated as a single right parenthesis ')' or a single left parenthesis '(' or an empty string "".

**Example** 1:

Input: s = "()"
Output: true


**Example** 2:

Input: s = "(*)"
Output: true


**Example** 3:

Input: s = "(*))"
Output: true
 

**Constraints**:

1 <= s.length <= 100

s[i] is '(', ')' or '*'.

First, we have a brute-force solution for this problem by generating all of available strings of parenthesis. In particular, we iterate through the input string from left to right, when we meet the `*` character, we replace it with `(`, or `)`, or `''` . This means if we have `m` is the numbers of `*` character in our input string, the number of strings after generating is `3^m`. 

We will iterate the `3^m` strings above and use a `checkValidParenthesis` function to check whether a string is valid or not. If we end our set with, at least, a valid parenthesis, then the original string is a valid and vice versa.

Here is an implementation of the `checkValidParenthesis`

```js
function validParenthesis (str) {
  if (str.length === 0 || str.length === 1) return false;

  let myStack = [];
  for (let i = 0; i < str.length; i++) {
    if (str[i] === '(') myStack.push('(');
    else {
      if (myStack.length === 0) return false;
      myStack.pop();
    }
  }

  return myStack.length === 0;
}
```

In this function, when I meet a `(`, I will push it into a stack and when I meet a `)`, I will pop the top element out of the stack. If the stack is empty when I reach to the end, the string is valid and if the stack size smaller than 0 or greater than 0 at the end, the string is not valid.

The time complexity of this algorithm is `O(N * 3^m)` where N is the length of the string and `m` is the number of `*` character in the input string.

Here is another algorithm that optimize the time complexity down to `O(n)` and the space complexity is `O(1)`. The solution below applies greedy algorithm:

```js
function checkValidString (s) {
    if (s.length === 0) return false;
    
    let balance = 0;
    for (let i = 0; i < s.length; i++) {
        if (s[i] === '(' || s[i] === '*') {
            balance++;
        } else {
            balance--;
            if (balance < 0) return false;
        }
    }
    if (balance === 0) return true;
    balance = 0;
    for (let i = s.length - 1; i >= 0; i--) {
        if (s[i] === ')' || s[i] === '*') {
            balance++;
        } else {
            balance--;
            if (balance < 0) return false;
        }
    }

    return true;
};
```